DDI 408 [Contextual Doc] GTM Guide (#583)
Amplitude-Developer-Docs/amplitude-dev-center: docs/data/sources/google-tag-manager.md

---
title: Google Tag Manager Template Quickstart Guide
description: Official Google Tag Manager template for Amplitude Analytics for data collection.
---

Use the official Amplitude Analytics Google Tag Manager templates to collect data. Choose a template to visit the documentation and tutorial video.  

|Template|Type|Description|
|---|---|-----------|

> |[Amplitude Analytics Browser SDK](../sources/google-tag-manager-client/)|Client-side|The tag uses the Amplitude Marketing Analytics SDK for data collection.|

Reviewer: The link seems broken, maybe "./google-tag-manager-client"?

Author: Changed it to `./google-tag-manager-client.md`. Not sure why `./google-tag-manager-client` doesn't work. I was trying to remove `.md` for a better format but it seems that it's the only way. 

Applied the same changes to the following.

> |[Amplitude Analytics](../sources/google-tag-manager-server/)|Server-side|The tag uses the Amplitude HTTP V2 API for data collection. |

Reviewer: Ditto

Author: change it to `./google-tag-manager-server.md`

> |[Amplitude Analytics Legacy](../sources/google-tag-manager-client-legacy/)|Client-side|The tag uses the Amplitude JavaScript SDK for data collection. |

Reviewer: Ditto

Author: changed it to `./google-tag-manager-client-legacy.md`

> |[Amplitude Analytics Legacy](../sources/google-tag-manager-client-legacy/)|Client-side|The tag uses the Amplitude JavaScript SDK for data collection. |

Reviewer: Also, do we want to change to `maintenance` to be align with https://github.com/Amplitude-Developer-Docs/amplitude-dev-center/pull/589?

Author: I prefer keep using "legacy" here because the name of the template is [Amplitude Analytics Legacy](https://tagmanager.google.com/gallery/#/owners/amplitude/templates/amplitude-gtm-template). Although we could change the name but that change may cause name confusion to customers who are using it.

Open to discussion if you have any thought!

GTM server-side templates run on the server, not on the client's browser. They control tags with server-side code and serve tags that require access to server-side data, such as monitoring server-side events. These templates offer a higher level of control over tag deployment and can handle complex tag implementations

Use GTM client-side templates to track user interactions on a website. Use server-side templates if you want to track sensitive customer information or complex tags that require server-side processing.

## Getting started

### Install the template

1. Go to [Tag Manager](https://tagmanager.google.com/) and select your container or [set up a new one](https://support.google.com/tagmanager/answer/6103696).
2. Open the **Templates** tab and click **Search Gallery** in the **Tag Templates** section.
3. Type "Amplitude" in the search bar and select the Amplitude GTM Template.
4. Add the template to your workspace by clicking "Add to Workspace".

### Create a tag

After installing the template, you can then use that template to create a tag. 

1. Go to the **Tags** tab in your Google Tag Manager Workspace and click **New**.

> 2. Select the Amplitude GTM Template from the list of available templates under **Tag Configuration**. If you haven't installed a Amplitude GTM Template, [install the template](./#install-the-template) first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select the Amplitude GTM Template from the list of available templates under **Tag Configuration**. If you haven't installed an Amplitude GTM Template, [install the template](./#install-the-template) first.
```

Reviewer 2: alternatively,

```suggestion
2. Select the Amplitude GTM Template from the list of available templates under **Tag Configuration**. If you haven't installed the Amplitude GTM Template, [install the template](./#install-the-template) first.
```

> 2. Select the Amplitude GTM Template from the list of available templates under **Tag Configuration**. If you haven't installed a Amplitude GTM Template, [install the template](../sources/google-tag-manager/#install-the-template) first.

Reviewer: Ditto

Author: Changed it to `./#install-the-template`

---
title: Google Tag Manager Template Quickstart Guide
description: Official Google Tag Manager template for Amplitude Analytics for data collection.
---

> Use the official Google Tag Manager templates for Amplitude Analytics for data collection. Click on the template name below to access the corresponding tutorial video. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the official Amplitude Analytics Google Tag Manager templates to collect data. Choose a template to visit the documentation and tutorial video.  
```

## Client-side vs server-side

Google Tag Manager (GTM) offers both client-side and server-side templates for tag deployment. GTM client side templates and GTM server side templates differ in the way they execute the tracking plan.

Client-side templates run the tracking plan directly on the user's device and use JavaScript code to manage tags. They serve tags that need to interact with the client environment, such as tracking user actions on a website. However, the client browser capabilities restrict these templates and may not be appropriate for tags that require access to server-side data. 

GTM server-side templates run on the server, not on the client's browser. They control tags with server-side code and serve tags that require access to server-side data, such as monitoring server-side events. These templates offer a higher level of control over tag deployment and can handle complex tag implementations

Use GTM client-side templates to track user interactions on a website. Use server-side templates if you want to track sensitive customer information or complex tags that require server-side processing.

## Getting started

### Install the template

> 1. [Set up and install Google Tag Manager](https://support.google.com/tagmanager/answer/6103696) if you haven't done so. 

Reviewer 3: Consider reworking these instructions to bypass all this browsing stuff and just directly link to the template page, where they can click "Add to Workspace". 

Reason: use the fewest clicks and steps you can. Even if it's not the way product wants you to use the tool 😂 

example: 
1. Set up and install .....
2. Choose a template: Link, Link, Link. 
3. Click **Add to Workspace**

Author: Changed it to the following:

> 
> 1. Go to [Tag Manager](https://tagmanager.google.com/) and select your container or [set up a new one](https://support.google.com/tagmanager/answer/6103696).
> 2. Open the **Templates** tab and click **Search Gallery** in the **Tag Templates** section.
> 3. Type "Amplitude" in the search bar and select the Amplitude GTM Template.
> 4. Add the template to your workspace by clicking "Add to Workspace".
>

Author: Also shorten the guide for creating a tag below this section

2. Browse to the target container. 

> 3. Click the "Templates" tab on the left

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Click the **Templates** tab on the left.
```

> 4. Click the "Search Gallery" button in the "Tag Templates" section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. In the **Tag Templates** section, click **Search Gallery**.
```

5. In the search bar, type "Amplitude" and select the Amplitude GTM Template from the list of results.
6. Click the "Add to Workspace" button to add the template.

### Create a tag

After installing the template, you can then use that template to create a tag. 

> 1. In Google Tag Manager Workspace, click on the "Tags" tab on the left and then the "New" button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In Google Tag Manager Workspace, click the **Tags** tab on the left, then click **New**.
```

> 2. Click "Tag Configuration" to select the Amplitude GTM Template from the list of available templates. If you haven't installed any Amplitude GTM Template, [install the template](./google-tag-manager/#install-the-template) first.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click **Tag Configuration** to select the Amplitude GTM Template from the list of available templates. If you haven't installed a Amplitude GTM Template, [install the template](./google-tag-manager/#install-the-template) first.
```

3. In the Configuration section, enter your [Amplitude API Key](../../analytics/find-api-credentials.md).
4. In the Triggers section, select the triggers that you want to use to fire the Amplitude tag. For example, you may want to fire the tag when a user visits a specific page on your website.
5. Save your tag and publish your GTM container.

### Check for success

Verify that the Amplitude tag is firing correctly by checking the Debug mode in GTM and [debugging Analytics](../../debugger). 

> To learn more about each template and access the corresponding tutorial video, click on the template name in the chart located at the top of the article.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To learn more about each template and see a tutorial video, click the template name in the table at the beginning of this page.
```
